# Excerpt Of The Book 
Extract from [*National Geographic Simply Beautiful Photographs*](https://www.amazon.com/National-Geographic-Beautiful-Photographs-Collectors/dp/1426217269) by **Annie Griffiths**

> Photography has opened our eyes to a multitude of beauties, things we literally could not have seen before the advent of the frozen image. It has greatly expanded our notion of what is beautiful, what is aesthetically pleasing. Items formerly considered trivial, and not worth an artist’s paint, have been revealed and honored by a photograph: things as pedestrian as a fencepost, a chair, a vegetable. And as technology has developed, photographers have explored completely new points of view: those of the microscope, the eagle, the cosmos.

> So what is it that delights the human eye and allows us to proclaim that a photograph is beautiful? Photography depends on the trinity of light, composition, and moment. Light literally makes the recording of an image possible, but in the right hands, light in a photograph can make the image soar. The same is true with composition. What the photographer chooses to keep in or out of the frame is all that we will ever see—but that combination is vital. And the moment that the shutter is pressed, when an instant is frozen in time, endows the whole image with meaning. When the three—light, composition, and moment—are in concert, there is visual magic.

> Light, composition, and moment come together in a photograph to bring us the ultimate reality: a view of the world unknown before the invention of the camera. Before photography, the basic artistic rules of painting were rarely violated. Images were made to please, not to capture reality. But as photography evolved, painterly rules were often rejected in the pursuit of fresh vision. Photographers became interested in the real world, warts and all, and it was the accidental detail that was celebrated. Photography invited the world to see with new eyes—to see photographically—and all of the arts benefited from this new point of view. Painters, sculptors, designers, weavers, dancers all expanded their vision of beauty by embracing the photographer’s love of reality. 

> With these basic aesthetic tools, photographers have evolved from scientists longing to “fix” an image—any image—to artistic visionaries. Along the way, the still image has evolved from being merely a document to being a stunning documentary of the 19th and 20th centuries. Photographs have created a new ethic of seeing. They have greatly expanded our notion of what is beautiful. It is to photography’s credit that it has found beauty in the most humble places, and that it has ushered in a new democracy of vision. People from all walks of life are able to feast their eyes on subjects remote and grand. They are able to hold them in their hands. Perhaps most important, all people can see themselves and their private worlds in beautiful ways because, in the words of Susan Sontag, “To photograph is to confer importance.” Photographs have given us visual proof that the world is grander than we imagined, that there is beauty, often overlooked, in nearly everything.
